#summary A list of games ideas that can be used for future contests.

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

=Simple RTS=

  * Real-time strategy game
  * Square tiles
  * Each tile is passable or non-passable (land and water)
  * Each unit has some properties
    * HP
    * Firepower
    * Range
    * Speed
  * To make things more complicated...
    * Purchase new units
    * Occupy points of interest
    * Collect resources
    * Take away perfect information

=Chess=

  * Very straight-forward
  * The rules are widely known
  * Lots of resources on the internet

=Tron=

  * This was the game for the Google AI Challenge 2010. Very popular, highly viral.

=Simple Shooter=

  * All ideas are on the table here
  * Could be on a discrete map or a continuous map
  * Could be perfect information or fog-of-war environment
  * Could be maze-like environment or more open
  * Would be interesting if it was multiplayer

=Least Unique Positive Integer=

  * Multiplayer game
  * Each player picks a positive integer. The lowest unique integer wins.
  * Interesting from a game theoretic point of view, but could turn out to have relatively trivial solution.
  * Not very sexy. It's not visual, there are no guns or explosions.

=Maze Escape=

  * Find your way out of a maze with imperfect information.
  * Your character gets dropped into a random position in a maze, and has to find their way out.
  * Could be a discrete tile-based environment or a continuous environment.
  * How much information should the player have? The distance in front of him, and maybe a bit more?

=Go=

  * Very difficult problem.
  * Won't attract many entries, sucks for beginners.
  * However, would draw a lot of interest. It is widely known that Go is a big challenge for AI techniques.

=Blokus=

  * Really interesting turn-based strategy game with high branching factor.
  * Very visual. Makes for great playbacks.
  * Would be like chess, but wouldn't turn into an AlphaBeta pissing contest because of the high branching factor.

=Risk=

  * Classic strategy game.
  * Should we allow inter-player communication? If so, I think this game basically turns into Survivor (see below).

=Rock Paper Scissors=

  * This was the problem from the first ever Google AI Challenge.
  * It's a very deep opponent modeling problem.
  * Trouble is, it's not too terribly interesting.

=Survivor=

  * Game of pure negotiation.
  * Many bots take part. At each round, the bots all vote and one bot is kicked out of the game.
  * Between rounds of voting, the bots have an opportunity to send each other messages.
  * Careful consideration should be given to the sort of messages that the bots are able to send each other.

=Backgammon=

  * Backgammon sucks.

=Canadian Checkers=

  * Just like normal checkers, except on a 10x10 board.
  * 8x8 checkers is solved, but 10x10 is not.

=Multi-Agent Battle=

  * Basically just like the Simple Shooter idea, except each bot gets to control many agents.
  * This could take the form of directing a naval fleet (if we want 2D) or a space-based fleet (if we want 3D).
  * 2D is cool because it's easily visualized in a web browser, and thus easily debugged.
  * 3D is cool because it probably would spur a lot of really neat computational-geometry-based algorithms.

=Billiards=

  * With imperfect information.
  * The bots get to say where they want to aim, but gaussian noise with a known standard deviation is added to their commands.
  * Like a human player, it's all about choosing the best shot which also has some likelihood of turning out as planned.